In the previous video, we have done configuring
ip address on all pc.
But the connection between pc in the different vlan is still failed.
This is because the layer 3 function in the
multi layer switch is not enabled yet.
Now in this video, we are going to activate
the layer 3 function of multi layer switch,
so between pc in the different vlan can communicate
each others.
Let’s just start.
Here go to global configuration mode.
And then type ip routing.
This command is used to activate the layer
3 function of multi layer switch.
Now let’s see the routing table again.
Here we can see that now we have some entry
in the routing table.
This is means that now the layer 3 function
is enabled.
Let’s try ping between pc in the different
vlan.
Let’s try from vlan 10 to vlan 20.
Okay the result is success.
Let’s try from vlan 30 in the room 2 to
the vlan 10 in the room 3.
The first packet is failed, let’s test again,
okay this is success.
Next let’s try from vlan 1 to vlan 20.
First packet is failed, let’s test again.
Okay this is success.
Okay, so now communication between pc in the
different vlan is success.
I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.